http://bmcbioinformatics.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1471-2105-6-233
 	
BACKGROUND

Uses results from mircoarray experiments
fold-changes (e.g. 2 fold up regulation)
up-regulation is green, no change is yellow and down-regulation is red.

USEFULL REFERENCES

Ref 1 	- PageRank algorithm
Ref 3 		- Noise in Microarray experiments
Ref 4-5 	- GO annotations
Ref 6-8		- Protien-protien interactions
Ref 11 		- Gene Ontology annotations
Ref 17-18 	- ROC

THE ALGORITHM

They note that other measures can be used other than Gene expression changes, e.g.
P-vakes which will show genes which are highly changed have a large input value.
They only consider the use of expression changes in this paper. They use an expression
vector. Containing the value for its expression change in the experiment under consideration.

param d [0..1] range, where 0 shows results based solely on the absolute value of the
expression change for that gene and 1 shows ranking based on connectivity. Values between
0 and 1 interpolate between the two extremes.

SYNTHETIC NETWORKS

They use synthetic newtworks which closely resemble the experiment results. They have pre-
define/determined ranking, e.g. genes in set A should be ranked higher than those in set B
because set A was determined to be "changed genes" and set B was "unchanged genes". This is 
the result based purely on fold-change. Re-ordering by GeneRank can be shown because of this.
If all the genes from set A are ranked highest on the list then d=0 and the algorithm is
equivenlant to ranking on pure fold-change.

The d value is set at 0.05 intervals [0.05-0.95] (for each value results are averaged over 
5 runs of the experiment) The higher the d value in this case the better the results, more 
accuracy. The improvement by the algorithm over expression change ranking is greater when 
the difference between the expected degree of both sets is greater. (LOOK UP AUC AND DEGREE)

They experimented with set sizes, |A| = 50,100,200,500 while |B| was always 1000. Set A had 
5-50% of genes defined as "differentially expressed". Results show set size of 100 was best 
for A. Produced the best results. (Largest improvement over expression change ranking).
Results show this method can produce better results than ranking based purely on diffential
expression.

0.75 <= d <= 0.85 produced optimal results, beyond 0.85 and the quality of results decreses,
therefore some expression change impormation is needed to make the best interpretation. It 
appears that although optimal results arise when there is some expression considered in the
ranking, a major contributory factor to the success of the algorithm is the high relative 
degree of the genes that are differentially expressed.

GO NETWORKS	

simliar method to above, interval values of d. Values 0.05-0.5 were best when the top 300 
down-regulated genes were in set A. As 0.05-0.5 all increased the AUC for all cases, 0.5 
was seen as the appropriate value. The increase in AUC is different accross the 3 Gene 
Ontology components.
reulated genes

FINAL TESTING

Real experimental data was used. An experiment was carried out to assess how well the algorithm 
is able to increase the relative ranking of a gene based on its connections to other highly 
changed genes.

CONCLUSION

GeneRank, allows connectivity and expression data to be combined to produce a more robust and 
informed summary of an experiment, compared to the standard procedure of basing the importance 
of a gene on its measured expression change.
We note that GeneRank results are not designed to replace the actual expression measurements, 
but should be used alongside the results with additional biological knowledge, to draw attention 
to unusual structures within the data. For example, a gene which is not viewed as important from 
the microarray results alone but is highly ranked in the GeneRank results, should be given further 
biological consideration.
GeneRank will further improve as more high-quality biological network information becomes avaliable.

METHOD

lots of maths

LOOK UP	

Synthetic networks
AUC
Gene Ontology

further look at observations of results